[MUSIC] Git is a very popular version
control system for software. We need Git for working with our node
ecosystem that we're going to use throughout this specialization. So it is important for
you to get Git onto your computer. So let's go through a few quick steps
to set up Git on your computer. And then some quick commands to enable us
to make use of Git in this specialization. I will not go into too much of details
about version control and how Git works, and so on. That is beyond the scope of this course. Instead, we'll just get some
basic understanding of Git. Git is as I said,
a version control system. This is a software tool
that enables us for the management of changes to source
code and maintaining a version history. So as your source code evolves, you will be able to check in the code
on different points of time. So that you can always have
a way of rolling back to a previous version in case your updates
to the code doesn't work correctly. There are various version control systems
that are in use in the real world. Including CVS, SVN, and
Git being a very popular mechanism for version control these days. Where did Git originate? Git was designed by Linus Torvalds, the
person behind the Linux operating system. Git was designed as a distributed
version control system for use in Linux kernel development. And it has seen much wider deployment
in the real world these days. That node ecosystem is
very much tied into Git. And that is the reason why we need Git for
this specialization. Let's now move on to a few hands-on
exercises where you will first set up Git. Then you will learn a few
basic Git commands. And then also understand how you
can set up an online repository in places like GitHub or Bitbucket for synchronizing your source code from
your computer to the online repository. This is obviously not a comprehensive
tutorial of Git, but we'll learn just enough of the commands that are necessary
for use in this specialization. Let's now run through a few quick
steps to set up Git on your computer. One easy way of setting up Git on your
computer is to go to this site called git- scm.com, and then download
the Git installation files from there. So when you visit this website,
git.scm.com, you will see on the right-hand side here,
a button for you to download the Git. If you want to, you can go directly to
the downloads page here on the site. And then you will find the downloads for
various platforms, and you can download the one for
your specific platform for installation. This is the easiest way of
getting Git onto your computer. There are other ways of setting up
Git depending on your platform. For example, if you install
GitHub Desktop on your computer, it'll automatically set up Git for you. If you are using a Mac and
you set up X Cord, and especially the X Cord command line tools. That will also setup Git for you. On this site, git-scm.com,
if you go to the documentation page, you will notice that there is
a book here called, Pro Git. You can just go on to
the Getting Started link. You will see a specific chapter
here on installing Git. So, just go to this Installing Git site,
and there you have more details about how to install Git
on your specific platform. So, you can use any of
the methods suggested here for installing Git on your platform. This is fairly straightforward, so I am not going to go through
the details of how to do the setup. Download the installer and run through
the setup to get Git onto your computer. Once you install Git on your computer,
start up a command window or PowerShell if you're
using a Windows machine. Or start up a terminal window if
you're using a Mac or Linux machine. And then at the prompt,
type in git --version to check what version of Git
is installed on your computer. So on my machine I have this current
version of Git installed, and that is good enough for me to work with. Once we verify that Git is installed,
you will configure a couple of global identity parameters,
the username and email address. So that whenever Git does any
comments as you will learn later, it will make use of this information. So, to do that, at the prompt type
git config --global user.name, and there you can type in your username. The other parameter that I'm
going to configure is my email. And to ensure that this
information has been configured, we can type git config --list, and then it'll list out a bunch of
configurations that we have done. Some of these are automatically set up for
you, but if you want to, you can set them up as you require. So here I have my code
editor value set to VI, which is what I use to do
a command line editing of files. So with this, we have completed the setup
of Git for use on our computers. Once you get Git on your computer,
it is time to go and learn Git bit by bit. [MUSIC]